**If any part of this work has been submitted or published elsewhere, please state where it has been submitted and how it differs from the paper submitted here. (Please either confirm that that the work has not been submitted or published elsewhere, or give details)**

Parts of the submission has been previously published in proceedings of AI conferences and workshops [1,2,3,4].
The notable additional material include: 
(1) extended and more detailed description of the algorithms compared to the previously published works
(2) description of BIab algorithm that naturally completes the current set of state-of-the-art exact algorithms for simultaneous move games
(3) extended survey on alternative algorithms for solving simultaneous move games
(4) first direct experimental comparison of different methods covering two types of applications: (a) computation of equilibrium strategies when computational resources are abundant and approximation refinement is a priority, and (b) the game playing, where computational resources are limited and acting quickly is necessary

[1] B. Bosansky, V. Lisy, J. Cermak, R. Vitek, M. Pechoucek, Using Double-oracle Method and Serialized Alpha-Beta Search for Pruning in Simultaneous Moves Games, in: Proceedings of the Twenty-Third International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), 2013.

[2] M. Lanctot, V. Lisy, M. H. M. Winands, Monte Carlo tree search in simultaneous move games with applications to Goofspiel, in: Computer
Games Workshop at IJCAI 2013, 

[3] V. Lisy, V. Kovarik, M. Lanctot, B. Bosansky, Convergence of Monte Carlo tree search in simultaneous move games, in: Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2013

[4] M. Lanctot, V. Lisy, M. Bowling, Search in imperfect information games using online Monte Carlo counterfactual regret minimization, in: Pro-
ceedings of the AAAI Workshop on Computer Poker and Imperfect Information, 2014.



**Do you agree not to submit the paper elsewhere during the review period? (We will not review papers without an affirmative answer.) (Please answer the question with a YES / NO) **

YES

**Did the availability of the AI journal for free as detailed at www.aijd.org influence your decision to submit to the AI journal? **

NO (The referred web page is not working properly.)

** What is, in one or two sentences, the original contribution of this work? **

Presentation of novel algorithms that outperform existing state-of-the-art algorithms for solving and playing simultaneous move games.
Providing a comprehensive perspective on the problem of solving and playing simultaneous move games.

** Why should this contribution be considered important for the field of Artificial Intelligence? Please confirm where you explain this in the paper? **

The submission is focused on computing optimal strategies and playing simultaneous move games. As we state in the introduction of the submission, the problem of solving and playing games is one of the central topics of Artificial Intelligence and previous research led to many strong AI players in games like Chess, Checkers, Go, or Poker. 


** What is the most closely related work by others, and how does this work differ? Please give 1-3 citations to such papers (not papers that of yours or your co-authors, of course), preferably from outlets such as the AI journal, the Journal of Artificial Research, IJCAI, AAAI, ECAI or some similar quality artificial intelligence venue. Your related work section should discuss the relationship in more detail. **

The closest work in exact algorithms for simultaneous move games is the recent work by Saffidine et al. [1] which define alpha-beta pruning for the class of simultaneous-move games. In this paper we present an algorithm that provides additional pruning and thus further significant improvement, often in orders of magnitude. Secondly, our paper describes variants of Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS), an algorithm that is widely used in perfect information games [2], or imperfect information games [3]. We describe the differences between the perfect information and simultaneous move games, analyze the impact of different choices in MCTS on the convergence rate of the algorithm.

[1] A. Saffidine, H. Finnsson, M. Buro, Alpha-beta pruning for games with simultaneous moves, in: Proceedings of the Thirty-Second Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-12), 2012.

[2] S. Gelly, D. Silver, Monte-Carlo tree search and rapid action value estimation in computer Go, in Artificial Intelligence, Volume 175, Issue 11, July 2011, Pages 1856-1875

[3] P. Ciancarini, G. P. Favini, Monte Carlo tree search in Kriegspiel, in Artificial Intelligence, Volume 174, Issue 11, July 2010, Pages 670-684

** AIJ will publish only work that is relevant to AI. It must also be accessible to a wide audience, even if the contribution of the paper is a narrow technical one (i.e. other AI researchers, not necessarily in the same sub-field should be able to appreciate the results and understand the paper's contributions and its relevance to AI). 
Your paper will be sent back for revisions or rejected if this is not the case. Answer the following two questions: 

1. Is your work relevant to AI, and where do you explain the relevance to AI in the paper?

2. Can you confirm that at least the abstract, introduction and conclusion can be appreciated by a general AI audience?

(Do not submit your paper until you are able to answer "yes" to both these questions.) **

1. Yes, as we state in the introduction of the submission, the problem of solving and playing games is one of the central topics of Artificial Intelligence and previous research led to many strong AI players in games like Chess, Checkers, Go, or Poker. 

2. Yes, the central ideas of our novel exact algorithm are intuitive and we provide examples for better understanding the concepts. Moreover, sampling algorithms are widely used not only in computational game theory and game playing, but also for example in (probabilistic) planning and this submission provides additional insights into using the sampling algorithms in environment with uncertainty that can be beneficial to these other sub-fields of Artificial Intelligence.

** AIJ encourages authors to submit additional electronic material (data sets, programs, videos....) which would be published in Science Direct if the paper is accepted (though not in the print version). Please describe here any such material you would make available in this way. **

All algorithms described in the submission were implemented in a unified framework for solving extensive-form games containing other algorithms as well. The source code of the framework, the algorithms, and all the domains used in the experimental evaluation of the submission is available at http://agents.felk.cvut.cz/topics/Computational_game_theory.


